Chapter – 6
1.	Explain the Infrared protocol with transmitter and receiver.

The Infrared (IR) protocol is a wireless communication method that uses infrared light to transmit data between a transmitter and a receiver.

It is commonly used in remote controls, wireless data transfer, and short-range communication applications.

Components

Transmitter:
Uses an IR LED to emit modulated infrared light.
Encodes data into a specific format (e.g., binary) using modulation techniques like pulse-width modulation.

Receiver:
Utilizes an IR photodiode or phototransistor to detect the incoming IR light.
Demodulates the signal to extract the original data and processes it for action.

Communication Process:

The transmitter encodes and emits a modulated IR signal.
The receiver detects the IR light and converts it into an electrical signal.
The receiver demodulates the signal to retrieve the original data and executes corresponding actions.

Advantages:

Low cost and simplicity.
Not affected by radio frequency interference.

Disadvantages:

Requires line of sight and has a limited range (typically a few meters).
Can be affected by strong ambient light.

Applications:
Commonly used in remote controls for TVs and other devices, as well as in short-range data transfer between devices.

2.	Explain the Bluetooth interface with Arduino.

The Bluetooth interface allows Arduino microcontrollers to communicate wirelessly with other Bluetooth-enabled devices, such as smartphones, tablets, or computers.

 This capability is useful for various applications, including remote control, data transfer, and IoT projects. 

Components Needed:

Arduino Board (e.g., Uno, Nano)
Bluetooth Module (e.g., HC-05 or HC-06)
Jumper Wires

Wiring:

VCC: Connect to Arduino 5V
GND: Connect to Arduino GND
TX: Connect to Arduino RX (Receive)
RX: Connect to Arduino TX (Transmit, may need a voltage divider)

Programming:

Use the SoftwareSerial library for communication.

Example :  code to send and receive data
 
#include <SoftwareSerial.h>
SoftwareSerial BTSerial(10, 11); // RX, TX

void setup() {
    Serial.begin(9600);
    BTSerial.begin(9600);
}

void loop() {
    if (BTSerial.available()) Serial.write(BTSerial.read());
    if (Serial.available()) BTSerial.write(


3.	Explain WIFI interface with Arduino.

The Wi-Fi interface enables Arduino boards to connect to the internet or local networks, allowing for remote communication and IoT applications.

Components Needed:

Arduino Board (e.g., Uno, Mega)
Wi-Fi Module (e.g., ESP8266, ESP32, or Wi-Fi Shield)

Wiring (for ESP8266):

VCC: Connect to Arduino 3.3V
GND: Connect to Arduino GND
TX: Connect to Arduino RX
RX: Connect to Arduino TX (may need a voltage divider)

Programming:

Use the ESP8266WiFi or WiFi library.
Example : code to connect to Wi-Fi

#include <ESP8266WiFi.h>

const char* ssid = "your_SSID";
const char* password = "your_PASSWORD";

void setup() {
    Serial.begin(115200);
    WiFi.begin(ssid, password);
    while (WiFi.status() != WL_CONNECTED) {
        delay(1000);
    }
}
void loop() {
    // Your code here
}